README.md, before:

# GitStatX

GitStatX is a macOS app built with SwiftUI for generating offline, visual Git statistics reports. It parses commit history and file diffs via native Git commands, aggregates metadata into SwiftData, and writes an HTML report you can export as a folder.

## Features
- Manage multiple repositories or folders in a sidebar
- Incremental stats with cache (`stats_cache.json`) to skip unchanged commits
- Progress tracking for scanning and processing stages
- Offline HTML report with bundled template and Chart.js assets
- SwiftData persistence for authors, commits, and files
- Export the generated report directory as a folder

## Requirements
- macOS 14+
- Xcode 15+ or Swift 5.9+
- Git available in PATH (default `/usr/bin/git`)

## Quick Start
1. Run from the repo root:
   ```bash
   swift run GitStatX
   ```
   Or open in Xcode and run the executable target `GitStatX`.
2. In the toolbar, click **Add**:
   - **Add Repository** to pick a folder containing `.git`
   - **Add Folder** to create a grouping node
3. Selecting a repository triggers stats generation automatically; if not, use **Generate Statistics** on the report page.
4. After generation, export the report via the **Export** button (saves the full report directory).

## Packaging
- Run `./build.sh` to produce a release `.app` at `dist/GitStatX.app`.
- GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/ci.yml` runs `swift test` on `macos-latest`, then calls the same script and uploads the app bundle artifact.

## Directories & Storage
- Reports and cache: `~/Library/Application Support/GitStatX/Reports/<project-id>/`
- SwiftData store: `~/Library/Application Support/GitStatX/default.store`
- Templates/assets: `Sources/GitStatX/Resources/templates`, `Sources/GitStatX/Resources/Chart.js`

## Testing
Run all tests:
```bash
swift test
```
Performance-oriented tests create large reports in temporary directories; SQLite warnings about missing files may appear during teardown but the suite completes.

Commit message:

feat(build): add app icon generation and improve build script - add new app icon SVG and compiled .icns/.iconset files - update build.sh to copy or generate app icon automatically - add .iconbuild_manual to gitignore for temporary files - update README with icon asset documentation - add fallback rebuild logic if executable is missing

README.md, after:

# GitStatX

GitStatX is a macOS app built with SwiftUI for generating offline, visual Git statistics reports. It parses commit history and file diffs via native Git commands, aggregates metadata into SwiftData, and writes an HTML report you can export as a folder.

## Features
- Manage multiple repositories or folders in a sidebar
- Incremental stats with cache (`stats_cache.json`) to skip unchanged commits
- Progress tracking for scanning and processing stages
- Offline HTML report with bundled template and Chart.js assets
- SwiftData persistence for authors, commits, and files
- Export the generated report directory as a folder

## Requirements
- macOS 14+
- Xcode 15+ or Swift 5.9+
- Git available in PATH (default `/usr/bin/git`)

## Quick Start
1. Run from the repo root:
   ```bash
   swift run GitStatX
   ```
   Or open in Xcode and run the executable target `GitStatX`.
2. In the toolbar, click **Add**:
   - **Add Repository** to pick a folder containing `.git`
   - **Add Folder** to create a grouping node
3. Selecting a repository triggers stats generation automatically; if not, use **Generate Statistics** on the report page.
4. After generation, export the report via the **Export** button (saves the full report directory).

## Packaging
- Run `./build.sh` to produce a release `.app` at `dist/GitStatX.app`.
- GitHub Actions workflow `.github/workflows/ci.yml` runs `swift test` on `macos-latest`, then calls the same script and uploads the app bundle artifact.
- App icon assets (`AppIcon.svg`, `AppIcon.iconset`, `AppIcon.icns`) are kept in `Sources/GitStatX/Resources/`; `build.sh` copies the `.icns` directly (falls back to generating from the SVG if missing).

## Directories & Storage
- Reports and cache: `~/Library/Application Support/GitStatX/Reports/<project-id>/`
- SwiftData store: `~/Library/Application Support/GitStatX/default.store`
- Templates/assets: `Sources/GitStatX/Resources/templates`, `Sources/GitStatX/Resources/Chart.js`

## Testing
Run all tests:
```bash
swift test
```
Performance-oriented tests create large reports in temporary directories; SQLite warnings about missing files may appear during teardown but the suite completes.
